KIC Migration guides (#1278)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/kubernetes-ingress-controller/migrate/ingress-to-gateway.md

---
title: Migrating from Ingress to Gateway

description: |
  How to migrate from Ingress API to Gateway API

content_type: reference
layout: reference

products:
  - kic

works_on:
  - on-prem
  - konnect

related_resources:
  - text: Ingress to Gateway FAQ
    url: /kubernetes-ingress-controller/faq/migrate-ingress-to-gateway/

---

## Prerequisites

Download the [Kong preview](https://github.com/kong/ingress2gateway) of the [kubernetes-sigs/ingress2Gateway](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway) CLI tool:

```bash
mkdir ingress2gateway && cd ingress2gateway
curl -L https://github.com/Kong/ingress2gateway/releases/download/v0.1.0/ingress2gateway_$(uname)_$(uname -m).tar.gz | tar -xzv
export PATH=${PATH}:$(pwd)
```

## Convert all the YAML files

In order to migrate your resources from `Ingress` API to Gateway API you need all the `Ingress`-based `yaml` manifests. You can use these manifests as the source to migrate to the new API by creating copies that replace the `Ingress` resources with Gateway API resources. Then, use the `ingress2gateway` tool to create new manifests
containing the gateway API configurations.

> > **Note**: In this guide the Ingress resources refers to Kubernetes networkingv1 `Ingress`es, Kong `TCPIngress`es, and Kong `UDPIngress`es. This means that **All** these resources should be included in the files used as a source for the conversion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: In this guide the Ingress resources refers to Kubernetes networkingv1 `ngresses, Kong TCPIngresses, and Kong UDPIngresses. This means that **All** these resources should be included in the files used as a source for the conversion.
```

1. Export your source and destination paths.

    ```bash
    SOURCE_DIR=<your_source_directory>
    DEST_DIR=<your_destination_directory>
    ```

1. Convert the manifests and create new files in the destination directory.

    ```bash
    for file in ${SOURCE_DIR}/*.yaml; do ingress2gateway print --input-file ${file} -A --providers=kong --all-resources > ${DEST_DIR}/$(basename -- $file); done
    ```

1. Check the new manifest files have been correctly created in the destination directory.

    ```bash
    ls ${DEST_DIR}
    ```

1. Copy your annotations from the ingress resources to the Routes. The routes' names use the ingress name as prefix to help you track the route that the ingress generated. All the `konghq.com/` annotations must be copied except for these, that have been natively implemented as Gateway API features.

   1. `konghq.com/methods`
   1. `konghq.com/headers`
   1. `konghq.com/plugins`

## Check the new manifests

The manifests conversion are as follows:

> - `Ingress`es are converted to `Gateway` and `HTTPRoute`s
> - `TCPIngress`es are converted to `Gateway` and `TCPRoute`s and `TLSRoute`s
> - `UDPIngress`es are converted to `Gateway` and `UDPRoute`s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ingresses are converted to `Gateway` and `HTTPRoute`s
- TCPIngresses are converted to `Gateway` and `TCPRoute`s and `TLSRoute`s
- UDPIngresses are converted to `Gateway` and `UDPRoute`s
```

Reviewer: this looked bad rendered. I'd rather add a dictionary entry
